# Machine-Learning-Supervised-learning-and-Unsupervised-Learning

Part 1: Dataset (15 marks)
Task: Create an image dataset for classification problems.
Requirements:
1. At least 2 classes (e.g., Positive or negative, normal or abnormal, yes or no, 0 or 1, Cats vs
Dogs).
(5 marks)
2. Minimum 50 images per class. (If you have 2 classes, then the number of images should be
100).
(5 marks)
3. You can make your own image collection by taking pictures with your phone or by using
free images from websites like Unsplash or Wikimedia. Feel free to mix both your own
photos and ones you find online.
(5 marks)

Part 2: Supervised Learning (25 marks)
Task: Apply one supervised learning technique.
Requirements:
1. Preprocess by resizing and normalizing the images. Write the code and discuss the process.
(5 marks)
2. Split into training and testing sets. Write the code and discuss the process.
(5 marks)
3. Use one supervised learning technique. Write the code and discuss the process.
(5 marks)
4. Train the model to classify your images. Write the code and discuss the process.
(5 marks)
5. Evaluate with performance metrics such as accuracy, precision, recall, and F1-score. Write
the code and discuss the process.
(5 marks)

Part 3: Unsupervised Learning (25 marks)
Task: Apply k-means clustering technique.
Requirements:
1. Apply k-means clustering technique. Write the code and discuss the process.
(20 marks)
2. Compare the clusters generated by k-means clustering with only one actual image for each
class. Discuss.
(5 marks)

Part 4: Reflection & Comparative Analysis (25 marks)
Task: Analyse and discuss your findings.
Requirements:
1. Based on the task given on part 2 and 3, what are the differences between the supervised
learning technique that you applied with the k-means clustering technique?
(5 marks)
2. What were the biggest challenges in data collection and data preprocessing?
(5 marks)
3. How well does supervised learning perform? Discuss.
(5 marks)
4. Discuss the output of the clusters generated by k-means with the actual image?
(5 marks)
5. What would you improve if you had more time or data?
(5 marks)